---
layout: default
title: Virtual Keychain
---

p(crumb). "Home":/ &raquo; "Projects":/projects &raquo; %Virtual Keychain%

h1. Virtual Keychain

p(meta). Updated 26 Aug 2010

h2. What it is

A web-based password/credential management application. Nothing super crazy, but it's turned out to be a very useful and efficient way for me to manage my *300+* login/password combinations. 

bq. Whether you're in Tokyo or Kansas City, you never have to remember to backup a &quot;password database&quot; or bring a hardcopy along again.
%(cite)- Me!%

h2. Why it's awesome

# It's a *single-page application*, and is extremely fast. Even with an account as large as mine, all operations are virtually instantaneous. 
# It's built around a completely stateless JSON(JavaScript Object Notation) API(Application Programming Interface). That means that the web site is just a client interacting with the API and maintaining all of its own state (yes, I've built an iPhone application; no, it's not published yet).
# Even for such a simple application, it gets surprisingly tricky to maintain state consistency across all of the possible operations. So having that all, you know, work, is pretty neat.
# I've managed to keep it running and updated since 2006 with no desire for revenue. That doesn't really make it awesome, per se, but it's something, right?

h2. Check it out

Feel free to "give it a whirl":http://virtualkeychain.com/ . Everything is completely anonymous, so you can create a dummy account and just play around for a while. If you manage to break something, "please let me know!":mailto:chad.burggraf@gmail.com

h2. Some hidden goodies

* You can add multiple accounts to your session. If you add entries for your secondary accounts to your primary account, with the URLs pointing to the _virtualkeychain.com_ domain, they will be automatically added to future sessions for you.
* Passwords are automatically copied to your clipboard when you click an entry's URL.
* You can copy entries between any of the accounts in your current session.
* Refreshing the page or navigating away causes you to immediately be logged out.